# Terms of Service

See also:
* [About](../readme.md)
* [Privacy Policy](privacy.md)
* [Invitation Policy](invitation.md)
* [Code of Conduct](conduct.md)

This instance is administrated by Tom Dickinson. "Admin", "I", or "Me" in the
following text refers to Tom Dickinson.

## Admin Rights

The admin is committed to seeking appropriate community input for substantive
changes to labyrinth.social policy, or other major administrative actions.
However, the admin reserves the right to act as the final authority for setting
and enforcing of these terms of service, up to and including suspension or
banning of users.

## Availability of Service

This service is provided as-is and makes no guarantees of uptime or
availability.

I am a hobbyist, not a professional sysadmin. I only kind of know what I am
doing here. When I invite people to join me here I'll be doing so in the hopes
that they can build a social presence that will be meaningful and important to
them, and that is a commitment that I take seriously.

For me, this is an experimental hobby project, and so I ask you to bear in mind
that it may not work out perfectly or last for a very long time. It's possible
that I will burn out, or not be able to justify the (currently small) expense at
some point, and there will be no one to take over for me, so it'll shut down. I
could also just become completely unable to keep things going for health or, uh,
death reasons.

What I can promise is that I won't just get bored one day and pull the plug
without warning. If the service is going to be made unavailable temporarily or
permanently, I will make a good faith effort to provide ample warning.

It is recommended that you take regular personal backups of your posts and
uploaded media by using the "Request Your Archive" feature located in the
**Settings > Import and export > Data export** menu. 

## Server Moderation

The admin reserves the right to Silence or Suspend ("block") other fediverse 
instances.

"Silencing" prevents posts from the silenced instance from appearing in the
public timeline visible on labyrinth.social, but it does not prevent users of
labyrinth.social from following or being followed by users of that instance, or
any other form of interaction. An instance may be silenced if it observes a set
of rules that is differs significantly from our code of conduct.

"Suspending" an instance prevents it from interacting with labyrinth.social in
any way. An instance may be suspended if its users frequently engage in
unacceptable and disruptive behavior.

In general, I will take it upon myself to suspend ("defederate") small servers 
that are unmoderated, or that have moderation policies which allow or encourage 
bigotry or harassment. The decision to defederate from larger servers, which may 
have lax moderation but also may contain many accounts of interest to 
labyrinth.social users, is a more complicated one and I will usually seek feedback 
from the community via the @admin](https://labyrinth.social/@admin) account.

If you're a logged in user of labyrinth.social, you can see a list of moderated (silenced or suspended) servers [here](https://labyrinth.social/about/more#unavailable-content). 

The list of moderated servers is not publicly available to non-users, but information may be available by request.

At present, I am the only moderator of this service and I do so on a volunteer basis. I cannot guarantee that moderation will always be provided as quickly as you would expect from a professionally moderated service, but I promise to make a good faith effort to respond to moderation requests in a timely manner, and in keeping with the Code of Conduct.